INTRODUCTION
------------
Our game is a monster-battling JRPG in the tradition of Pokemon, but with some tactical sensibilities reminiscent of collectable-card-games in particular.

Similarities to Pokemon involve limiting active battle participants to one-at-a-time with units needing to be 'swapped in' to the 'ring' in order to use abilities, but at the cost of being vulnerable to attack.

The biggest dissimilarity to Pokemon is that a single team can take more than one action per turn in battle, where-as the single-action limitation is a major part of Pokemon's design. In particular, teams are given a fixed amount of 'Action Points' on their turn and can spend these points in a large number of ways, including using monster abilities and swapping units. This means that a player could use an ability with ONE monster and then swap another monster into the ring before the opponent can retaliate against the first.

Furthermore, battle ends when the team LEADER (the 'trainer') is KO'd, and the team leader is vulnerable to damage whenever their current monster is KO'd and the enemy team still has AP remaining.

Finally, unlike in Pokemon, leaders (trainers) don't bring their entire team into each battle. Players form a 'deck' of 10 units (monsters) and, for each battle, they choose 4 of those units to fight alongside them.

One of our game's major gimmicks is the 'Dynamic Rule System,' where the rules of a battle can effectively be altered by its participants with the goal being for one team to establish rules which SUPPORT their tactics and UNDERMINE their enemy's tactics while also trying to de-establish rules which support their ENEMY'S tactics and undermine their own. Dynamic Rules (or simply 'Dynamics') can be implemented into a battle in a variety of ways, including by using Abilities or simply bringing certain units and leaders into battle.

For those familiar, the closest comparison that I can think of to the Dynamic Rule System in existing video games is the 'Laws' system of Final Fantasy Tactics Advance and its sequel. It's essentially a meta way to control your opponent's options.

This document will explain individual mechanics in-depth as they would arise during a player's first sitting with the game, starting with the construction of a 'deck'.


LIMITATIONS OF THE ALPHA (LINEAR AND NON-LINEAR VARIATION)
----------------------------------------------------------
In Alpha, this game will play like a relatively simple card game where gameplay is entirely player-vs-player and both players have access to all of the same resources, including all of the available units (monsters), leaders, abilities, and equipment. From these resources, both players will construct their decks.

In the Beta, we expect for more-or-less all of these resources to not only be gradually UNLOCKED or EARNED by the player throughout gameplay but each of these individual objects will have a range of 'variation' which adds an element of randomness to the game. Not only will the individual object that the player unlocks be randomized, but the object, itself, will have randomized attributes within certain limitations. This per-object attribute randomization is referred to as "linear variation."

Aside from linear variation, our game is expected to feature 'non-linear variation,' where similar objects may occupy a particular 'family', and players, when unlocking an object from a family may receive any of these child objects whose differences may be more than just their numerical attributes.

For example, if a player chooses to unlock a 'Slap' ability ('buying' it with some currency), they may receive one of three possible Slaps: a "normal" Slap, a "Big Slap" which does more damage but has a greater penalty for Glancing, and a "Double Slap," where the ability hits twice but at reduced damage each time. All three of these would be 'non-linear variations' of 'Slap,' and each would have their own gamut of LINEAR variation as well (variation to their damage, costs, etc.).

In the Alpha, there will be NO linear variation (no variation of numerical attributes within a single object) and players will have access to all of the non-linear variations of every ability, unit, leader, and equipment.


DECK CONSTRUCTION
-----------------
A 'deck' is a cherry-picked collection of 10 'units' (monsters) and their 'leader' (trainer). Before each battle, the player will choose 4 of these units to form a team with for that battle, and so the units in a deck should have good synergy with one-another and be able to form teams with a variety of combinations to suit different enemy teams.

There are a number of factors to consider when choosing units for a deck. We'll detail those factors here.

    ABOUT UNIT ATTRIBUTES
    ---------------------
    As with any JRPG, each unit has a variety of attributes (mostly numerical) which will be a major factor in which 'roles' that unit may be suitable for in battle. Players would be well-advised to consider these attributes carefully when picking units for their deck.

    A unit's 'basic' attributes include their standard numerical attributes (HP, LP, MP, ATK, DEF, SKL, PRY), their current exhaustion level ('EXS,' expressed as a percentage), and that unit's descriptor tags.

        MAX, CURRENT, AND AUGMENTED ATTRIBUTES
        --------------------------------------
        During deck-construction, attributes will be considered in their 'max' form, which is the baseline value for that particular unit. However, attributes have a variety of forms throughout gameplay.

        For consumable attributes which are used as resources battle, their 'current' form represents how much of that resource is remaining. For instance, if a unit begins a battle with their 'max' HP of 20 but then takes 5 HP damage, their 'current' HP is 15 -- but they can still only have their HP restored up to their 'max' HP amount. Resource attributes with a 'current' value include HP, LP, and MP (and a Leader's AP).

        During battle, all attributes also have an 'augmented' value, which represents the value that is used currently by the game's calculations. For instance, although a unit's 'max' ATK may be 5, they may be under the influence of a 'buff' which, at the moment, causes their 'augmented' ATK to be calculated as 7. That same unit may elsewise be subject to a 'nerf' which, at the moment, causes their augmented ATK to be 3.

        In the case of resource attributes like HP, LP, and MP, the 'augmented' value points toward what would be the maximum value for those resources.

        In battle, all effects are calculated from the current 'augmented' value of any attributes involved, and those values default, at the start of battle, to those attributes 'max' or baseline values.

    HP (Health Points)
    ------------------
    At the start of battle, each unit begins with a full supply of this resource which represents how much physical damage they can take. When a unit's HP is reduced to zero or lower, it's considered "KO'd", and the enemy team can deal direct damage to the KO'd unit's leader, bringing them closer to their win-condition. Furthermore, a unit will be penalized 1 LP when they are KO'd.

    A KO'd unit must be swapped out of the ring at the start of its team's turn (at no AP cost). It cannot be swapped back into the ring or take any more HP or LP damage until its HP is restored above 0. Also, a KO'd unit's 'Unit Dynamic' (explained below) will be stricken inactive while it's KO'd.

    LP (Life Points)
    ----------------
    A unit's LP is their only resource attribute which is not completely restored between battles and represents how many more dire wounds that unit can take before it can no longer fight. Once a unit's LP is reduced to 0, it can no longer be revived from a 'KO' state and is effectively removed from the deck (until the session is over).

    Units take 1 LP damage whenever their HP hits 0 or below and they become KO'd. They can also take LP damage as the result of rare critical hits or very rare, expensive abilities. After a battle, every unit on the winning team has their LP restored by 1.

    MP (Magic Points)
    -----------------
    On their turn, the number of actions that can be taken on behalf of a particular team is limited by their leader's 'AP' resource. However, the actions of individual units may also be limited OVER THE COURSE OF AN ENTIRE BATTLE by their remaining MP value, which some abilities may consume as a cost.

    Not all abilities consume MP, but those that do should be used carefully. A unit whose MP is entirely consumed may be relatively limited in battle without access to their best abilities.

    As with a unit's HP, this value is entirely restored between battles.

    ATK (Attack Power)
    ------------------
    This value represents a unit's offensive potential and is used in damage calculations during ability use.

    Unlike in many JRPGs, units make no distinction between 'physical' attack power and 'magical' attack power, and this value can be used freely for calculating damage to any of a target's attributes, including HP, MP, or elsewise.

    Although damage calculation formulas may vary between abilities, it should be commonly understood that abilities do approximately 100% of their damage when the aggressor's ATK is equal to the defender's DEF. When ATK is 50% of DEF, abilities may do ~50% of their damage. When ATK is 200% of DEF, abilities may do ~200% of their damage, etc.

    DEF (Defensive Power)
    ---------------------
    This value represents a unit's defensive potential and is used in damage calculations during ability use.

    As with ATK, no distinction is made between 'physical' defense and 'magical' defense and may be used freely during damage calculation for HP, MP, LP, etc.

    As noted above, damage calculation formulas will vary between abilities -- but, generally, an ability's 'normal' or 'baseline' damage will be inflicted when the defender's DEF is roughly equal to the attacker's ATK, and the damage may scale directly as this ATK:DEF relationship scales.

    SKL (Skillfulness)
    ------------------
    This aggressive attribute is compared to a defender's 'PRY' to determine an ability's 'Effectiveness'.

    Each ability in the game has 3 levels of effectiveness ('Glancing', 'Normal', 'Critical'), with each potentially having different effects. When an ability is used, a random number is generated to determine Effectiveness with weighting toward certain Effectiveness levels being based on the SKL:PRY relationship. Having higher SKL will weight your abilities toward 'Critical,' which may make them especially effective.

    PRY (Parry)
    -----------
    This defensive attribute is compared to an attacker's 'SKL' to determine an abilitiy's Effectiveness.

    As explained above, abilities each have 3 potential levels of effectiveness, which will determine the outcome of the ability. Whenever an ability is used, a random number is generated to determine Effectiveness, and having higher PRY when an aggressive ability is targeting you will weigh that ability toward 'Glancing' effectiveness, which may make it relatively ineffectual.

    EXS (Exhaustion)
    ----------------
    'Exhaustion' is represented as a percentage starting at 0% and defines a penalty to all of a unit's attributes as they enter their next battle.

    At the end of every battle, each participating unit will gain 15% to their EXS, which means that their max attributes will be penalized an additional 15% at the start of the next battle, if they participate.

    For each battle that a unit does NOT participate in, its EXS is lowered by 10%. Therefore, players should choose their teams carefully to not exhaust their units and therefore lower their viability in battle as their attributes become reduced.

    EXS, like LP, is restored entirely at the end of a session.

    TAG (Descriptor Tags)
    ---------------------
    This non-numerical attribute is a list of words which could be used to describe this unit, such as 'tiny' or 'metallic' or 'one-eyed', etc. These tags can be used by Abilities or Dynamics to alter their effects. For instance, an Ability implied to be 'electrical' in nature may be especially effective if its target has a 'conductive' tag.

    The value of TAG may be augmented during battle to add or remove current tags. For instance, a unit may receive an 'oil-covered' tag from some Ability targeting them, which may make them increasingly susceptible to a follow-up Ability.


    UNIT DYNAMICS (Dynamic Rules)
    -----------------------------
    Our game's central gimmick is the 'Dynamic Rule System,' which will encourage players to exert control over the battle's 'rules' to empower their own team's strategies and to limit their opponent's options. Some examples of Dynamic Rules could be, "If a unit's max HP is greater than 40, then the MP cost of their abilities is increased by 20%," or, "Whenever a unit is KO'd on a given team, every remaining unit on that team gains a 5% DEF boost."

    Dynamic Rules can be put into play in a wide variety of ways, including by using certain Abilities, by choosing certain Leaders, and by playing on certain battlefields, but one of the most tactically significant ways is to take advantage of 'Unit Dynamics.'

    A 'Unit Dynamic' is a battle rule ('Dynamic') which will remain active for as long as the attached Unit is active in the battle (on the team and not KO'd). Every Unit in the game has a unique Unit Dynamic, and so constructing a team (and, by extension, a deck) will involve careful consideration of Unit Dynamics and how they might interact with eachother as well as what sorts of tactics they support.

        TRIGGERING DYNAMIC EFFECTS (Check Phase)
        ----------------------------------------
        When examining the conditions for a Dynamic Rule to take effect, consider whether it's REACTIVE to some event in battle or if it will ALTER an event in battle.

        For instance, a Dynamic Rule which is REACTIVE (or could be said to have an 'after check-phase') may be expressed as, "When a unit takes 10-or-more HP damage, they gain 1 DEF." In this case, the rule takes effect AFTER some event in the game takes place (a unit loses 10 HP).

        A Dynamic Rule which will ALTER an event (or could be said to have a 'before check-phase') may be expressed as, "When a unit attacks with any ability with the 'magical' descriptor, that ability does twice as much HP damage as it otherwise would have." In this case, the rule CATCHES an event to do HP damage and REPLACES it with another event which will do twice as much HP damage.

        Some Rules ADD ('after') events and other Rules ALTER ('before') events.

        DYNAMIC RULE SEVERITY
        ---------------------
        Every Dynamic Rule has a 'Severity' value which can increase how dramatic the Rule's effects are or even augment the Rule's effects in other ways. When a Rule is first implemented into battle, it has some Severity level, and that Severity can be altered over time. For instance, some Rules may lose or gain Severity every turn. Some Abilities can reduce or raise the Severity of a target Rule. Some Rules can reduce or raise the Severity of other Rules.

        In the case of, "When a unit takes 10-or-more HP damage, they gain 1 DEF," the amount of DEF gained may increase with the Rule's Severity. As mentioned, the effect of Rules may be augmented in other ways, as well. For instance, if that Rule were to reach 10 Severity (maximum), perhaps its effect would change to, "When a unit takes any HP damage, they gain 5 DEF."

        Understanding the impact of Severity on a particular Dynamic Rule is integral to understanding how to use that Rule tactically.


    ABILITY POOLS (Unit Classes / Roles)
    ------------------------------------
    The Abilities that a unit can use in battle are limited by the 'Ability Pools' that they have access to. Each pool contains Abilities which suit a particular function in battle and could be thought of as being definitive of a Unit's 'role,' 'class,' or 'job'. Some Ability Pools may specialize in dealing straightforward HP damage while others may specialize in controlling the opponent via restrictive Dynamic Rules. Others may be especially good at supporting other units on the ally team, etc.

    A single unit has, on average, limited access to three different Ability Pools -- which, together, round out that unit's tactical potential. Most of these Pools will be typical of this unit-type but a unit can also gain access to new Ability Pools or replace their current Pools by changing their 'Equipment' (explained below) or by being under the effect of certain Rules or Abilities in combat.

    Some attributes of a Unit's Ability Pools may be augmented during battle, including their currently-available Ability Pools, the Pool Level of those Pools, and the Ability Slots of those Pools.

        POOL LEVEL
        ----------
        Each Unit has access to some number of Ability Pools and each Pool has an associated 'Pool Level' (1, 2, or 3) which limits the Abilities from that Pool that a unit can use in battle.

        At Pool Level 3, a unit has access to all of the Abilities in a Pool, including its most powerful or bread-and-butter tools. As such, a level 3 Pool will be highly definitive of a unit's function in battle.

        At Pool Level 2, a unit has access to all BUT the most powerful or bread-and-butter tools that a Pool has to offer. As such, Level 2 Pools offer much in the way of supporting-abilities to round out a unit's tactical potential beyond their Level 3 Pool(s).

        At Pool Level 1, a unit only has access to the least-essential and most tangential Abilities from that Pool. These Abilities may not be useful in every situation but may be convenient in edge-case scenarios or as a way to burn the remainder of a nearly-completed turn.

        By default, the levels of a unit's Ability Pools are pre-defined by unit-type and are balanced against the default builds of every other unit in the game. However, the level of an Ability Pool can be altered during deck-construction by changing a unit's 'Equipment' (explained below) or in battle by placing the unit under the affect of certain Rules.

        POOL DYNAMICS
        -------------
        Between all of the Abilities in a particular Pool, only 3 different Dynamics can be inflicted on battle. Abilities will share these Dynamics and may inflict them at different severities or with different likelihood. By reading and understanding what these Dynamics are, it becomes possible to get a strong sense of the purpose of a particular Ability Pool.

        ABILITY PRIORITY AND SLOTS
        --------------------------
        For every Ability Pool in the game, a unit can organize that pool's Abilities, from top-to-bottom, based on how crucial that Ability is to the unit. This is 'Ability Priority' and ties into the purpose of 'Ability Slots,' which is an attribute of a unit's Ability Pool which can change dynamically in battle.

        On top of its Pool Level, every Ability Pool has a number of unlocked 'Ability Slots.' These Slots represent how many Abilities from this Pool this Unit can use in battle. By default, the number of Ability Slots that a unit has access to for a given Pool is based on that Pool's current Level: Level 1 Ability Pools and Level 2 Ability Pools have 1 Ability Slot by default, and Level 3 Ability Pools have 2.

        If a unit has access to 3 Ability Slots for a given Ability Pool, they'll be able to use the 3 Abilities from the Pool that have the highest Ability Priority while also being accessible at the unit's current Pool Level.

        During deck construction, a unit's number of available Ability Slots can be extended by spending that unit's budget of 'Growth Points' (explained below) as well as by using Equipment to upgrade a Pool to level 3 or to directly unlock additional slots. In battle, a unit's number of Ability Slots may change as the result of various Dynamics or Abilities.

        The choice of how many Slots a unit needs and what Ability Priority to assign for their Pools is crucial to how that unit is going to be utilized in battle. Units can prioritize Abilities that they may not be able to use due to their Pool Level limitations, but those Abilities will become unlocked if that unit is under the affect of some Rule or Ability which raises their Pool Level. Likewise, they may lose access to some of their Abilities if under the affect of a Rule which lowers their Pool level.

        PARENT ABILITIES
        ----------------
        An Ability Pool contains 6 'Parent Abilities,' which themselves each contain 3 'Child Abilities,' which are what a unit actually equips into their 'Ability Slots' and uses in battle.

        Abilities that are the child of a particular parent will all have a similar function and description but may vary in the particulars of their usage. Some may have more or less reward at various effectiveness levels. Some may have a higher chance of inflicting a particular Dynamic into battle or may inflict different Dynamics entirely.

        For example, a Parent Ability 'Slap' may have 3 children all of which specialize in straightforward HP damage for a middling AP cost. However, one Child Ability, "Double Slap," may split that damage over two hits, which could make it more effective against opponents that have low DEF. Another Child Ability, "Heavy Slap," may deal more damage but will do 0 damage at Glancing Effectiveness. The third child, "Stun Slap," may do average damage at Glancing and Normal Effectiveness -- but, instead of gaining damage at Critical Effectiveness, it has a chance to inflict a 'Stunned' Dynamic on some opponent Unit.

        In that example, all Child Abilities fulfill a very similar purpose but with slight variation in effect.

            ABILITY TIERS
            -------------
            Parent Abilities (and, by extension, their Child Abilities) are assigned a 'Tier' which limits their usage to certain Pool Levels. Every Ability Pool has two Abilities for each of three Tiers: Tier 3 (most-powerful and bread-and-butter Abilities), Tier 2 (Abilities that otherwise strongly support tactics), and Tier 1 (Abilities that may occasionally support particular tactics).

            To be able to use Tier 3 Abilities in battle, a unit has to have Level 3 access to the Ability Pool in question, and this also gives them access to Tier 2 and Tier 1 Abilities. Level 2 Pools will be able to use Tier 2 and Tier 1 Abilities, and Level 1 Pools can only use Tier 1 Abilities.

            CHILD ABILITIES
            ---------------
            When directly examining an Ability Pool, it's perhaps most important to take note of the PARENT Abilities contained within that Pool. However, it's the CHILD Abilities of those parents which a unit actually takes into battle with them.

            When choosing between Child Abilities to take into battle, there are a few factors that are important to understand and examine. 

                EFFECTIVENESS
                -------------
                When used in battle, every ability has a randomized 'Effectiveness' level, which will have an impact on the ability's effect. This Effectiveness can come in one of three levels. From least-effective to most-effective, they are: "Glancing," "Normal," and "Critical".

                When rolling for Effectiveness, Unit attributes can have an impact on the chances to fall into a certain Effectiveness level. Higher SKL minimizes the possibility of falling into Glancing Effectiveness and maximizes the possibility of rising into Critical Effectiveness, but the target's PRY can counteract this. In other words, the relationship between the user's SKL and the target's PRY will usually determine the % chance that an ability's usage will fall into a particular Effectiveness level.

                Unlike in other JRPGs where the 'Effectiveness' parallel would be the "miss / hit / critical hit" mechanic, every Ability in this game has three discrete effects depending on what Effectiveness the usage rolls. For instance, some Abilities may miss entirely when landing at Glancing Effectiveness, but others may have reduced damage or inflict a less severe Dynamic, etc. Likewise, "Critical" Effectiveness doesn't imply a direct increase in damage (as it would in other JRPGs), but rather every Ability has a discrete 'Critical' effect, which may result in more HP damage but may also result in a reduced cost or a more severe Dynamic or any other number of auxiliary effects.

                In other words, every Ability in the game can have three different effects depending on the Effectiveness rolled. Also, every Ability may use its own internal calculation for Effectiveness randomization, but the standard calculation is:

                If SKL == PRY:
                    Glancing 15%, Critical 15%
                THIS IS SUPER WROGN
                If SKL > PRY:
                    Glancing 15%, Critical 15 + (SKL / PRY) * 70%
                If SKL < PRY:
                    Glancing 15 + (PRY / SKL) * 70%, Critical 15%

                In other words, the minimum chance to Glance or Crit is 15% and the maximum chance to Glance or Crit is 85%, with the chance to Normal occupying the remainder. As SKL grows over PRY the chance to Normal is reduced and the chance to Critical is increased. As PRY grows over SKL, the chance to Normal is reduced and the chance for Glancing is increased.

                DIRECT AND INDIRECT EFFECTS
                ---------------------------
                The purpose of using a given Ability is to take advantage of its effects. In essence, there are two types of effects that an Ability can have:
                1.) Directly increase or decrease a numerical attribute, whether it be the 'current' value of a resource attribute (HP, MP, LP) or the 'augmented' value of an attribute.
                2.) Impact the Dynamics of battle, including adding new Dynamics, neutralizing existing Dynamics, or altering the Severity of a Dynamic.

                Abilities (and Dynamics) can take more than one target, although, usually, the target will be the opposing unit in the ring.

                By setting up Dynamics, an Ability can create situations where its effects are delayed or set as traps or may synergize with the effects of other abilities and Dynamics to become especially effective under certain tactics.

                DIRECT AND INDIRECT COSTS
                -------------------------
                Unlike in other JRPGs, Abilities don't have a explicit 'cost,' because the Dynamic Rule System means that there could very well be situations where reducing a unit's 'MP,' for instance, may result in a positive effect for that unit or their team. For this reason, what would be traditionally considered as a 'cost' of an ability in another JRPG should be thought of more as a 'side-effect' of abilities in this game.

                For instance, an Ability may reduce the target's HP by 10 and the user's MP by 3. In that sense, this ability has an MP 'cost,' but it should be considered that there are many types of 'costs' in this sense outside of just reducing a resource attribute like the user's MP, HP, or even their LP.

                An Ability could put a Dynamic into play which has some effect that is a double-edged sword. A Dynamic may prevent the use of ALL Abilities in battle that reduce the user's MP by 10 or more. This would limit the Abilities that both teams can use. On the other hand, if you're putting this Dynamic into play, it must be because you hope that it'll impact your opponent's team more than it'll effect your team.

                So, there may be direct and indirect costs to using any Ability.

                DESCRIPTOR TAGS
                ---------------
                Abilities can be tagged with any number of arbitrary descriptors, such as "magical" or "fiery" or "blunt," etc. These descriptors can be probed by Dynamics so that they can be triggered under interesting circumstances. For instance, a Dynamic may be described as, "When this Rule's target unit is targetted by a fiery Ability, that Ability's HP damage is reduced by 20%."

                UNIQUE PROPERTIES
                -----------------
                Some Abilities may internally store variables such as the number of times they've been used in a battle or which targets they've been used on recently, etc. These Abilities may change their effect based on any number of variables over the course of the battle and these traits should be taken into consideration when trying to understand how to best use the ability tactically.

    CHOOSING A LEADER
    -----------------
    The Leader that you choose for your deck plays an important role in the tactics that you'll be able to make best use of. When choosing a Leader, there are a few factors to keep in mind.

        AP (Action Points)
        ------------------
        In Battle, at the start of every turn, that team's leader's 'AP' (Action Points) is restored to its maximum value (usually '10'). Virtually every action taken on a turn will consume that team's leader's AP -- and once the leader's AP reaches 0 (or a value below the cost of any available actions), that turn is over.

        The AP cost of various abilities in the game is a major tactical consideration, and some Leaders may have slightly different max AP values, giving them an advantage or disadvantage (which may be balanced out by their other attributes).

        HP (Health Points)
        ------------------
        Like Units, Leaders have HP -- but it plays into a different set of mechanics. The win-condition for any battle is to reduce the enemy leader's HP to 0, and, to do this, a player must KO the opposing unit in the ring while having AP remaining. At this point, the remaining AP may be used to directly reduce the opposing leader's HP at a cost of 1-to-1. Players may also opt to use that AP for Abilities, instead.

        Some rare and powerful Abilities and Dynamic Rules may reduce (or restore) a leader's HP directly.
        
        LEADER DYNAMICS
        ---------------
        As with Units, every Leader has Dynamic(s) that they bring into Battle just by virtue of having them on your team. The same considerations should be made as when examining the 'Unit Dynamics' of the units that are being brought into the team, such as tactical advantages offered by a particular Dynamic as well as synergy with the team.

        Because each deck can only have one leader, care should be given to a Leader's Dynamic because it would need to coincide well with every possible 4-unit team in the 10-unit deck.

        INITIATIVE
        ----------
        Before any battle -- before teams are chosen -- both players will roll for 'Initiative,' which will give the winning player an advantage at the start of the battle. Each Leader gains different advantages when their team wins initiative, which may include forcing the opponent to pick their team, first, and then being able to view that team (counter-picking), as well as other advantages. Pay close attention to the initiative advantages of any Leader that you're bringing into your deck.

        LEADER ABILITIES
        ----------------
        In battle, a player primarily has access to the abilities of whichever Unit is in the ring. However, regardless of which units are in the ring, the player always has access to Leader Abilities which may be standard or unique to each Leader.

        One standard Leader Ability is 'Swap Unit,' which typically has a cost of 3 AP and will trade the unit in the ring for another unit on the team. However, for some leaders, this AP cost may be slightly more or slightly less.

        Another standard Leader Ability is 'Use Item,' which will expend a consumable item from the team's inventory, which will have some effect on battle. This inventory of items is replenished between battles.

        Leaders may also have unique Leader Abilities, such as small buffs or heals or any other sort of Ability similar to what a Unit would have access to, except that they can be used on any turn, making them extremely powerful. In this way, a Leader's abilities could be a major factor in what strategies are most effective for your team and deck.

    CHOOSING EQUIPMENT
    ------------------
    Every unit in the deck can be equipped with a single piece of 'Equipment' which can augment their attributes and abilities. In most cases, this won't drastically change the function of a unit but equipment can have a variety of relatively profound effects.

    In the completed game, Equipment will likely be unlocked on a per-account basis to be equipped into those players' decks. In the alpha, every player will have access to every piece of equipment.

        EQUIPMENT ATTRIBUTES
        --------------------
        Equipment has the potential to augment the attributes of a unit, such as max HP and MP, ATK, DEF, etc. It can also add Descriptor Tags to a unit.

        What's interesting about the way that wearing Equipment augments a unit's attributes is that the BASE attributes are affected, which means that, during the expenditure of Growth Points (explained below), equipment can alter the payback for expending GP on a particular attribute. If a piece of Equipment raises a unit's Max HP, then that unit will grow HP faster when expending GP.

        ADD, REPLACE, OR UPGRADE ABILITY POOLS
        --------------------------------------
        Some Equipment will affect what Abilities the attached unit will be able to access in battle.

        Equipment may add new Ability Pools to the Unit (probably at a low Pool Level, for balance reasons), or they may replace an existing Ability Pool on that unit (such as a piece of Equipment which replaces the 'Healer' pool with the 'Warrior' pool, which would only be effective on units which already have the 'Healer' pool).

        Some equipment may upgrade the Pool Level of a particular Ability Pool, whether that be a precise pool ("upgrades the Pool Level of the Healer pool") or maybe a pool-by-reference ("upgrades the unit's lowest-level Pool by one level," or, "upgrades the unit's third Ability Pool").

        As with other means of altering a unit's Ability Pools, any equipped Abilities which belong to an augmented pool may become inaccessible in the case that that Equipment is removed or otherwise disabled (perhaps by an Ability in combat).

        ADD DYNAMICS
        ------------
        Some Equipment may add a Unit Dynamic to the equipping unit. This Dynamic behaves exactly the same as other Unit Dynamics in that the Dynamic becomes active as soon as the equipped unit enters battle. However, if a unit's 'Equipment' is disabled in battle (perhaps by an Ability), this Dynamic may cease to be effective.

    SPENDING GROWTH POINTS
    ----------------------
    During the deck-creation process, the player will be picking-and-choosing from a lot of pre-developed assets including Units, Abilities, and Equipment. By mixing-and-matching these elements, players should be able to create very unique decks with a wide variety of tactical possibilities.

    On top of all of these features is the 'Growth Points' budget which further allows players to take fine-grained control over the units in their deck. In particular, each unit in the deck is budgeted a small amount of 'Growth Points' which can be used to augment that Unit's numerical attributes and abilities.

        GROWING ATTRIBUTES (including ability slots)
        --------------------------------------------
        By expending growth points toward a particular numerical attribute, that attribute can be grown by some percentage. Because this growth is percentage-based, it may be more economical to spend GP on attributes which are already high for that unit to make them even more extreme -- or GP can be spent, at a greater cost, to round out that unit's weak attributes.

        GP can also be expended to grow a Unit's Ability Pools, including increasing the number of Ability Slots and maybe even leveling up the Ability Pool (at a great cost).

        BUYING ITEMS
        ------------
        Once the player has spent their GP budgets for all ten of the units in their deck, they'll be prompted to spend any leftover GP, pooled together, to buy items for their leader's inventory.

        These items may have a wide variety of affects similar to unit abilities but they are consumed upon usage. A deck's inventory is completely restored between battles, so the decisions regarding what items to buy with the deck's remaining GP may have a large impact on that deck's strategy.

PRE-BATTLE
----------
Once a player has chosen their rules for battle (especially how many battles will take place over the course of a single set) and has been match-made with their opponent, they'll choose their deck from the ones they've constructed and the 'pre-battle' phase will begin.

    INITIATIVE
    ----------
    Before battle can begin, both teams will roll for 'initiative,' which will give an advantage to the winner. The particular advantage distributed is dictated by the winner's "Leader," as described above. This is why it's important to consider a Leader's initiative-advantage, among their other attributes, during deck-construction.

    Common types of initiative-advantage will include means of previewing the losing player's team before the winning player begins choosing units for their team, giving them a match-up advantage. Units may begin with an attribute-boost. Special Dynamic Rules may be in play, etc.

    FORMING YOUR TEAM
    -----------------
    During deck-construction, players will choose a leader and 10 different units. In battle, however, a player only brings their deck's leader and 4 of the units from their deck to form a 'team'.

    Depending on what initiative-advantages are in play, choosing these 4 units for your team are some of the most tactically-significant decisions that a player will make for battle. If you can see what team your opponent has selected, you can easily choose your 4 units based on what you expect will work well against their team. Otherwise, you may need to construct a team with a broader set of tools that may work well against a wider variety of teams.

    Consider that the Unit Dynamics attached to these 4 units will be the ones that your team brings into the upcoming battle. Dynamics attached to other units in the deck have no bearing in battle.

        COUNTER-PICKING
        ---------------
        If you can see or otherwise guess what sorts of units your opponent's team is going to be bringing into battle, you can choose units whose Dynamics or Ability Pools will make them especially capable against the enemy team. For instance, if the opponent has units which rely heavily on MP, perhaps bringing units with Dynamics or abilities which punish MP use could be a strong counter-pick.

        If your opponent relies heavily on hitting Critical Effectiveness, bringing units with high PRY attributes could be a strong counter-pick.

        If your opponent's strongest units have unique Descriptor Tags, perhaps bringing units whose Abilities and Dynamics target that descriptor could be a strong counter-pick.

        LP AND EXHAUSTION
        -----------------
        When choosing units for your team, consider the attributes of the unit which are not completely restored between battles.

        Although HP and MP are fully restored after every battle and other attribute augments (both up and down) are neutralized, a unit's LP and Exhaustion are not completely restored. For that reason, a unit's remaining LP and current Exhaustion amount becomes a tactical consideration when choosing a unit.

        Higher Exhaustion means that their attributes will be hampered and it's worth remembering that their Exhaustion will be even HIGHER for their NEXT battle.

        Units with lower LP will be more likely to reach 0 LP during battle and be knocked out of the deck. On the other hand, if a unit doesn't lose any LP during battle, they'll come out of battle with more LP than when they went in (explained below).


BATTLE
------
Once a player has constructed their deck, chosen their rules (such as number of battles in the set), been match-made with an opponent, rolled for initiative, and chosen their team, battle can finally begin.

    BATTLEFIELD DYNAMIC
    -------------------
    Just like Units and Leaders and even Equipment can bring Dynamics into play in battle, each battlefield comes inherent with Dynamics that are associated with it. Supposing that the initiative-advantage team didn't get the opportunity to choose a battlefield, one will be chosen at random, and so both players would be wise to review all of the Dynamics currently in-play before making any further tactical decisions.

    CHOOSE UNIT FOR THE RING
    ------------------------
    Before either player gets their turn, both players must choose a Unit to go into the 'ring'. These Units are the ones whose Abilities the team will have access to, along with the Leader's Abilities, on their turn. Also, the majority of attack-abilities in the game will target the opposing unit in the ring.

    In other words, the unit in the ring is the unit whose abilities can be used and which is the most vulnerable.

    Both players will choose their first units for the ring at the same time, blind to the other player's pick, barring any special initiative-advantage.

    USING ABILITIES AND ITEMS
    -------------------------
    On a player's turn, they'll be doing any of three things until their AP for that turn is exhausted or they choose to end their turn prematurely.

    They could use the Abilities of the Unit currently in the ring, which may involve attacking an enemy unit (especially the enemy unit in the ring), buffing or healing ally units, putting new Dynamic Rules into play, enhancing or neutralizing existing Rules in play, etc.

    They could use the Abilities of their Team Leader, which may do any of the above (but likely with much less effectiveness, since they have the tactical advantage of being usable at any time, regardless of what Unit is currently in the ring). These would also include standards like swapping the Unit which is currently in the ring with another unit or using items.

    As explained above, 'items' are consumables that the team brings into battle with them and which can have any effect, when used, that a Unit or Leader's Ability could have. Because they are consumed, each 'item' can only be used once per battle, but they are restored on a battle-by-battle basis, even within the same set of battles. Depending on the Leader, using items could also carry any AP cost.

        ADDING DYNAMICS
        ---------------
        The 'Dynamic Rule System' is a mechanism highly integral to the tactical decisions that a player is going to make in the game. By taking advantage of the deck-building process and the team-choosing process and by being aware of the Battlefield Dynamic -- and by being aware of the opponent's Unit, Leader, and Equipment Dynamics -- players will be empowered to exert control over the flow of battle beyond simply consuming, lowering, and raising numerical attributes on their turn.

        Players will be able to punish the enemy team for setting up the strategy that they want to play and they'll be able to add additional benefits for their team to play the way that they want to play. Considerations to cost will need to be made, especially when a player is trying to set up Dynamics will also defending the HP and other attributes of their ring-unit and their leader.

        TARGETING DYNAMICS
        ------------------
        Not only can new Dynamics be introduced into play on a player's turn, but Dynamics which are already in play -- whether they be Unit Dynamics, Leader Dynamics, Equipment Dynamics, Battlefield Dynamics, or Dynamics introduced by a previous Ability -- can be targeted for enhancement or neutralization.

        Although many Abilities in the game are going to directly target one or more enemy units (usually the unit currently in the ring) or one or more ally units, many others will take a Dynamic as a target. These Abilities may raise or lower the Severity of a Dynamic (explained above) or entirely remove the Dynamic from play (with some exceptions, like Leader, Unit, Equipment, and Battlefield Dynamics which cannot be entirely removed).

        Some Abilities may put new Dynamics into play whose targets are, themselves, other Dynamics. These Dynamic-on-Dynamic relationships may cause one Dynamic to BLOCK another or continually reduce another's Severity or any other number of conditions, both positive and negative.

        TARGETING UNITS
        ---------------
        As in a typical JRPG, it's common for Abilities to take one or more Units as a target, be they enemy units or ally units.

        Every Ability in the game has the opportunity to introduce its own calculation for Effectiveness chance, but the standard calculation when targeting multiple units is to take the average of their PRY and compare that to the SKL of the ability-user. When targeting units for a 'friendly' Ability, the equation will often differ (because those units don't want to 'parry' the incoming ability).

        To maintain the tactical balance of the game, offensive Abilities which target units outside of the ring will almost certainly have a reduced impact compared to those which exclusively target the opposing unit in the ring. This is because the in-ring unit is meant to be the most vulnerable to attack and the units outside of the ring are meant to be relatively safe from attack.

    SWAPPING UNITS
    --------------
    Because a team can only take advantage of the Abilities of the unit which is currently in the ring -- and because the unit in the ring is the most vulnerable to attack by the enemy -- teams will commonly swap which unit is in the ring, on their turn. This will give the team access to different abilities and will alternate which unit is especially vulnerable to the opponent's attack on their upcoming turn.

    Swapping units will incur an AP cost which may vary on a leader-by-leader basis but which is normally '3' (out of a normal '10' total AP per turn). This makes unit-swapping a weighty decision which will negatively impact the amount of Abilities that a team can use on their turn if they also want to swap units -- and especially if they want to swap units more than once in a single turn so to take advantage of different units' abilities.

    KO'ING ENEMY UNITS AND ATTACKING THE ENEMY LEADER
    -------------------------------------------------
    When an enemy unit's HP falls to 0 on the ally team's turn, that unit will be considered 'knocked out' and will suffer an LP penalty of 1 (barring any special Dynamics in play).

    If a unit is KO'd, they can be revived by any Ability or Dynamic which restores their HP to any value above 0.

    If the ally team has any AP remaining when the opposing enemy unit in the ring has been knocked out, the team may opt to convert any amount of their remaining AP into direct HP damage against the enemy leader. When the enemy leader reaches 0 HP, the ally team wins.

    When a team's turn begins and their in-ring unit is knocked out, they will be prompted to swap that unit for any other unit on their team for no AP cost (barring any special Dynamics in play).

    ENDING THE TURN
    ---------------
    When a team's remaining 'AP' is 0, their turn is over and the enemy turn begins. A team can also opt to end their turn early, although there are no built-in mechanisms to reward a player for ending their turn with AP remaining (barring any special Dynamics in play).

    Players should be careful of which Unit they leave in the ring at the end of their team's turn, because that Unit will be the most vulnerable to attack on the enemy's upcoming turn -- and if that unit is KO'd during the enemy's turn, they'll have an opportunity to attack the ally leader. When the ally leader's HP reaches 0, the enemy team wins.


POST-BATTLE (LP RESTORATION AND EXS)
------------------------------------
When one of the team's leader's HP is reduced to 0, the opposing team is the winner and the Battle ends. Because most online matches will be 'set based,' the competition between the two players doesn't end after a single Battle. Because of this, there are some post-battle considerations for players to keep in mind.

    LP (Life Points) Considerations
    -------------------------------
    When a Unit's LP is reduced to 0 during a Battle, that Unit is removed from its player's Deck. That means that it can no longer be revived during that Battle and it can no longer be chosen for future Battles in the set.

    However, any units on the winning team whose LP is above 0 by the end of the Battle will have 1 LP restored. This is a bonus given as a reward to the winning team and tactically means that units on the winning team can afford to be knocked out once per Battle (or lose an LP by other means) and can still come out of Battle without any LP loss.

    The post-battle LP restoration also means that a Unit who had already lost LP in a previous Battle may come out of Battle with even higher LP than they went in with if their player is defensive with their LP.

    EXS (Exhaustion) Considerations
    -------------------------------
    For every Battle that a Unit takes part in, their EXS will go up by 15%, which means that all of their numerical attributes will be lowered by an additional 15% if they take part in the next Battle.

    For every Battle that a Unit DOESN'T take part in, their EXS will be reduced by 10% (with a minimum of 0%). Players should keep this in mind when choosing which Units to bring onto their Team in the next Battle in the set.
